We present Libra
an interaction model for data visualization
which promotes efficient interaction mechanisms
for producing visualization systems
In the visualization community
the visualization reference model
and the Grammar of Graphics are well-known models
for describing how data is converted into visual elements
However, interaction is only poorly handled by those models
For example
when creating a scatter plot with interactive brushing
typically a rectangle will be shown on the screen
But the rectangle itself doesn’t have its place
in the visualization reference model
Or
when elements are selected and highlighted in different colors
the interactive part of the visualization will be different
but the static part should stay the same
The reference model cannot describe these differences
Furthermore
managing the interaction history is an important aspect
for data analysis
But such reversible actions cannot be found
in the existing models
Libra is an extended version of the MVC design pattern
whose layer and graphical transformer are the view
the service is the model
As for all controllers
we have two of them
one is the instrument
the other is the visual encoding
In doing so
Libra facilitates the design, reuse, composition, and extension
of rich interaction techniques for data visualization
First, let’s see how to reuse a hover instrument
We only need to initialize and attach it to the main layer
Since the default feedback just copies the selected elements
to the selection layer without highlighting
we just change the shared variable
of the instrument to highlight the colors
Here we set the highlight color to red
As a result
the selected element now becomes red
Next
we want to change the interaction mode to brush interaction
We only need to change the hover instrument
to the brush instrument
The feedback displays a transient rectangle
with selected elements shown in red
This mechanism helps us create the same interaction
on different visualizations or services
Next, we compose an expressive interaction
for an ex-centric labeling technique
Based on a hover instrument
the interaction can be composed into a shape selection service
a layout service
and an analysis service
where each service has its own visual encoding
for redrawing the corresponding layer
Since all services and layers are separated
from the visual representation of the main layer
this ex-centric labeling technique can be reused
for any kind of visualization
like for example treemaps
All the built-in components could be easily extended in Libra
In this example, let’s create a multi-modal interaction
In order to support touch interaction
we are able to extend the specification of the interactor
Then, we attach a customized service
to the hover instrument and a drag instrument
Doing so, the DimpVis technique is implemented
More complicated examples
such as interactive K-Means
are created by customized components
which are combined
More examples are shown on our website
Thanks for your attention